#summary Help Regarding How to Customize AVRProjectIDE

==General==

You can configure a lot of things through files stored in the application data folder that AVRProjectIDE uses. To find this folder, run AVRProjectIDE, and it should appear in the "Messages" subwindow. You can also open the configuration window, go to the last tab, and click on the button that says "Open Application Data Folder".

If any files become unusable, AVRProjectIDE should be able to handle it, maybe even rewrite the default configurations back. If any files are missing, AVRProjectIDE will recreate the default configuration.

Do not touch workspace.xml unless you understand how DockPanel Suite handles it.

For help with project templates, see TemplatesHelp

===Editor Customization===

scintconfig.xml handles customization options for the editor. Please do not actually remove any styles, or change style names. Adding styles will not work. The colours available to use are [http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.drawing.color_properties.aspx found here]. You can also change the settings for the indentation and line wrapping. Use the word "true" for things you want enabled. 

Available attributes are:
 * Font
 * Size (integer)
 * ForeColor
 * BackColor
 * Bold (true or false)
 * Italic (true or false)
 * Underline (true or false)

To customize the keyword lists, remember that only list 0 and 1 actually work. Also, you can have multiple XML tags for the same keyword list, and when they are read, they'll just be combined.

===The .ini File===

The only thing in the settings.ini file that is not configurable through the editor's GUI is the backup interval. The serial port settings are actually the settings which was last used.

===Custom Help Menu===

The custom help menu is stored in helplinks.xml. The structure looks like this:

{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<HelpLinks>
  <Link Text="AVR-Libc Reference" URL="http://www.nongnu.org/avr-libc/user-manual/">
    <Link Text="Library Reference" URL="http://www.nongnu.org/avr-libc/user-manual/modules.html" />
    <Link Text="Interrupts" URL="http://www.nongnu.org/avr-libc/user-manual/group__avr__interrupts.html" />
    <Link Text="FAQ" URL="http://www.nongnu.org/avr-libc/user-manual/FAQ.html" />
  </Link>
  <Link Text="Baud Rate Chart" URL="http://www.wormfood.net/avrbaudcalc.php" />
  <Link Text="Fuse Calculator" URL="http://www.engbedded.com/cgi-bin/fcx.cgi" />
  <Link Text="Timer Calculator" URL="http://frank.circleofcurrent.com/content.php?page_id=avrtimercalc" />
  <Link Text="Atmel's Site" URL="http://www.atmel.com/products/AVR/" />
</HelpLinks>
}}}

The "Text" attribute is what the menu item displays, and the "URL" attribute is the URL to the webpage you want the item to visit when clicked, the URL can also be a file path to an local file or exe. When the "Link" elements are nested, the children of the element become the drop-down from that menu item. If the "URL" attribute is missing, then the link will still appear but will not be clickable.