#summary Frequently Asked Questions

===I found a bug or I have a feature request===

Please check the issue list, and create an issue if it does not already exist.

===What are those checkboxes for beside my files?===

Unchecked files are ignored during the build process.

===Why can't I checkmark my .h or .hpp files?===

You can't compile those, or at least, shouldn't.

===How do I tell the project what language I am using===

You don't have to, if a file is cpp, then it will be compiled with avr-g++, if a file is c, then avr-gcc is used, if any pde files are found, then the build process will use the same method that Arduino's editor builds the project.

Note that you can't "supplement" a C or C++ project with a pde file as the Arduino core already defines a main function.

===Please explain `-Wall` and `-gdwarf-2` and `-std=gnu99`===

Those are the same default compiler options that AVRStudio used. It means all warnings are displayed, use dwarf-2 for debugging, and the C standard is GNU99.

===What is the “Run Only Options” button for in the AVRDUDE command builder?===

It'll run AVRDUDE but won't write the hex file to it, this is used to check that your programmer is working

===How do I send special characters through the serial port?===

Use escape sequences, such as \r \n \t \v \b \a

If you want to send a single byte, use \xFF where FF is the hexadecimal representation of the byte you want to send.

===How do I debug or run a simulator?===

Export as an aps file and open it with AVRStudio.